**Flow Tokenomics Working Group** - Minutes of the Meeting

**Meeting #1 [Inaugural]**

**Date**: July 26, 2023 [Wednesday], 9-10 AM PST 

**Attendees**:
1. Alley Cat (Chris Hoorenman)
2. Anthony Darvall
3. Antoni Palazzolo
4. “Bz”
5. Daniel Malinovski
6. Deniz Mert Edincik
7. Luca Basile
8. Jonny
9. Kshitij Chaudhary
10. Lu
11. Lucas
12. Lucas Myers
13. Nishanta Dharmaseri
14. Reda (Redallica)
15. Sean Robb
16. Vishal Changrani

**Meeting Minutes**
1. The meeting commenced with a warm welcome and a discussion about the motivation, objectives, and the community-driven selection process for the Tokenomics Working Group.
2. Following that, all members introduced themselves, and there was unanimous agreement on the group's strengths and the value brought by its diverse composition.
3. Subsequently, members shared their primary tokenomics concerns that they believe should be the focal points for upcoming meetings.

      a. **Staking**: Concerns were expressed about the high staking minimum and the lengthy unstaking process.
   
      b. **Node Operations**: Members highlighted the high expenses associated with running a node, and only an 8% take-rate on delegated funds leading to much higher risk for validators than delegators.

      c. **Inflation & Token Circulation**: There were concerns about high inflation and the impact of staked tokens being inactive, which affects the velocity/ circulation/ exchange of FLOW tokens within the network.

      d. **FLOW Utility**: Members raised the issue of most users only staking their FLOW tokens, without actively utilizing the network, leading to limited token usage. One proposal suggested a staked flow token, similar to stETH, as a potential solution to enhance FLOW liquidity.

      e. **Transaction Execution Methodology**: Concerns were raised about the FIFO method for transaction execution. A suggestion was made to explore reordering transactions based on complexity, fostering a competitive gas fee market which could also help address inflation.

      f. **Sliding Scale Transaction Fee Model**: A new transaction fee model was proposed, wherein users with more tokens or higher transaction volumes pay lower fees, aimed at incentivizing both holding and network usage.

      g. **Availability of Tokenomics Data**: Members emphasized the importance of freely accessible tokenomics data, including state size, transaction fee collection, staked flow, operated flow, delegated flow, rewards, etc., to enhance transparency and analysis.

      h. **User Incentives**: Members advocated for revisiting user incentives, not solely focusing on validator incentives, and considered employing a suitable DeFi model, such as GMX's GLP model that rewards ecosystem participation of all forms. 

      i. **Storage Fee**: Several state storage mechanisms were explored, ranging from a 100x storage fee increase (currently live in FLIP), to integrating storage charges during data or asset creation (user-friendly approach), introducing a garbage collection economy for eliminating stale data and reclaiming FLOW tokens, and considering the distinction between withdrawable and total balance for enhanced user clarity.

4. **Key Administrative Decisions**

      a. **Document Management**: GitHub will be used for member details, meeting schedules, minutes, and recordings. Everyone is encouraged to update their descriptions on the platform.

      b. **Communication Channels**: Email will be used for document reviews and meeting invites, while Discord will be set up for ongoing discussions on economic topics.

      c. **Meeting Cadence**: Regular meetings every quarter to redefine the agenda, with ad hoc meetings as needed.

      d. **Adding New Members**: Nomination process to remain open. New nominations will be voted on before each meeting, with the group size capped at around 25 members.

      e. **Community Engagement**: Members to utilize their networks and provide support to keep the community informed about discussions.

6. **Next Steps**: 

      a. Set up a Discord channel for a continued discussion between members

      b. Members to review the new Tokenomics landing page and proposed public dashboard

      c. All Members to share GitHub, Discord, and other contact details

      d. Agenda and date to be proposed; members to vote and share feedback

      e. GitHub TWG repo to be updated with meeting minutes

**Links**

[Video recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pV7nte_WumE) of the meeting

[Full meeting transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gzDqUE47EmlXPCWHdNsH1EAiibAyYSBxO8d6aWw_380) (transcribed by read.ai)

